Concept guide on orchestrating Beam preprocessing (#23094)
apache/beam: website/www/site/content/en/documentation/ml/orchestration.md

![A standalone beam pipeline](/images/standalone-beam-pipeline.svg)

Note that simply defining a pipeline and the corresponding DAG does not mean that data will start flowing through the pipeline. To actually execute the pipeline, it has to be deployed to one of the [supported Beam runners](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/runners/capability-matrix/). These distributed processing back-ends include Apache Flink, Apache Spark and Google Cloud Dataflow. A [Direct Runner](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/runners/direct/) is also provided to execute the pipeline locally on your machine for development and debugging purposes. Make sure to check out the [runner capability matrix](https://beam.apache.org/documentation/runners/capability-matrix/) to guarantee that the chosen runner supports the data processing steps defined in your pipeline, especially when using the Direct Runner.  

## Orchestrating frameworks

> Successfully delivering machine learning projects is about a lot more than training a model and calling it a day. In addition, a full ML workflow will often contain a range of other steps including data ingestion, data validation, data preprocessing, model evaluation, model deployment, data drift detection… On top of that, it’s essential to keep track of metadata and artifacts from your experiments to answer important questions like: What data was this model trained on and with which training parameters? When was this model deployed and which accuracy did it get on a test dataset? Without this knowledge at your disposal, it will become increasingly difficult to troubleshoot, monitor and improve your ML solutions as they grow in size.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Successfully delivering machine learning projects is about a lot more than training a model and calling it a day. A full ML workflow will often contain a range of other steps including data ingestion, data validation, data preprocessing, model evaluation, model deployment, data drift detection, etc. Furthermore, it’s essential to keep track of metadata and artifacts from your experiments to answer important questions like:
- What data was this model trained on and with which training parameters?
- When was this model deployed and what accuracy did it get on a test dataset? 

Without this knowledge at your disposal, it will become increasingly difficult to troubleshoot, monitor and improve your ML solutions as they grow in size.  
```

Caveat: The Beam orchestrator is not meant to be a TFX orchestrator to be used in production environments. It simply enables to debug the TFX pipeline locally on Beam’s DirectRunner without the need for the extra setup that is needed for Airflow or Kubeflow.

## Preprocessing example

Let’s get practical and take a look at two such orchestrated ML workflows, one with Kubeflow Pipelines (KFP) and one with Tensorflow Extended (TFX). These two frameworks achieve the same goal of creating workflows, but have their own distinct advantages and disadvantages: KFP requires you to create your workflow components from scratch and requires a user to explicitly indicate which artifacts should be passed between components and in what way. In contrast, TFX offers a number of prebuilt components and takes care of the artifact passing more implicitly. Clearly, there is a trade-off to be considered between flexibility and programming overhead when choosing between the two frameworks. We will start by looking at an example with KFP and then transition to TFX to show TFX takes care of a lot of functionality that we had to define by hand in the KFP example.  

> To not overcomplicate things, the workflows are limited to three components: data ingestion, data preprocessing and model training. Depending on the scenario, a range of extra components could be added such as model evaluation, model deployment… We will focus our attention on the preprocessing component, since it showcases how to use  Apache beam in an ML workflow for efficient and parallel processing of your ML data.  

Reviewer: ```suggestion
For simplicity, we will showcase workflows with only three components: data ingestion, data preprocessing and model training. Depending on the scenario, a range of extra components could be added such as model evaluation, model deployment, etc. We will focus our attention on the preprocessing component, since it showcases how to use Apache beam in an ML workflow for efficient and parallel processing of your ML data.  
```

> The dataset we will use consists image-caption pairs, i.e. images paired with a textual caption describing the content of the image. These pairs are taken from captions subset of the [MSCOCO 2014 dataset](https://cocodataset.org/#home). This multi-modal data (image + text) gives us the opportunity to experiment with preprocessing operations for both modalities.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The dataset we will use consists of image-caption pairs, i.e. images paired with a textual caption describing the content of the image. These pairs are taken from captions subset of the [MSCOCO 2014 dataset](https://cocodataset.org/#home). This multi-modal data (image + text) gives us the opportunity to experiment with preprocessing operations for both modalities.
```

### Kubeflow pipelines (KFP)

In order to execute our ML workflow with KFP we must perform three steps:

1. Create the KFP components by specifying the interface to the components and by writing and containerizing the implementation of the component logic
2. Create the KFP pipeline by connecting the created components and specifying how inputs and outputs should be passed from between components and compiling the pipeline definition to a full pipeline definition.
3. Execute the KFP pipeline by submitting it to a KFP client endpoint.

> The full example code can be found [here](sdks/python/apache_beam/examples/ml-orchestration/kfp/)

Reviewer: I assume this link works? Does a relative reference work? I can't test since those files are also added to this PR.

Reviewer: Can we use a full link as if the page already exists? i.e. `https://github.com/apache/beam/tree/master/sdks/python/apache_beam/examples/ml-orchestration/kfp/`

Author: done

{{< highlight file="sdks/python/apache_beam/examples/ml-orchestration/kfp/components/preprocessing/component.yaml" >}}
{{< code_sample "sdks/python/apache_beam/examples/ml-orchestration/kfp/components/preprocessing/component.yaml" preprocessing_component_definition >}}
{{< /highlight >}}

In this case, each component shares an identical Dockerfile but extra component-specific dependencies could be added where necessary.

{{< highlight language="Dockerfile" file="sdks/python/apache_beam/examples/ml-orchestration/kfp/components/preprocessing/Dockerfile" >}}
{{< code_sample "sdks/python/apache_beam/examples/ml-orchestration/kfp/components/preprocessing/Dockerfile" component_dockerfile >}}
{{< /highlight >}}

With the component specification and containerization out of the way we can look at the actual implementation of the preprocessing component.  

> Since KFP provides the input and output arguments as command-line arguments, an argumentparser is needed.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Since KFP provides the input and output arguments as command-line arguments, an `argumentparser` is needed.
```

{{< /highlight >}}

After that, the pipeline is created and the required components inputs and outputs are specified manually.

{{< highlight file="sdks/python/apache_beam/examples/ml-orchestration/kfp/pipeline.py" >}}
{{< code_sample "sdks/python/apache_beam/examples/ml-orchestration/kfp/pipeline.py" define_kfp_pipeline >}}
{{< /highlight >}}

Finally, the defined pipeline is compiled and a `pipeline.json` specification file is generated. 

{{< highlight file="sdks/python/apache_beam/examples/ml-orchestration/kfp/pipeline.py" >}}
{{< code_sample "sdks/python/apache_beam/examples/ml-orchestration/kfp/pipeline.py" compile_kfp_pipeline >}}
{{< /highlight >}}

#### Execute the KFP pipeline

{{< highlight file="sdks/python/apache_beam/examples/ml-orchestration/kfp/pipeline.py" >}}
client = kfp.Client()
try:
    experiment = client.get_experiment(experiment_name=EXPERIMENT_NAME)
except:
    experiment = client.create_experiment(EXPERIMENT_NAME)
arguments = {}

run_result = client.run_pipeline(experiment.id, 
                                 RUN_NAME, 
                                 PIPELINE_FILENAME, 
                                 arguments)

> {{< /highlight >}}

Reviewer: Is this code supposed to be in pipeline.py? Can you clarify where this is supposed to be run?

### Tensorflow Extended (TFX)

> The way of working for TFX is similar to the approach for KFP as illustrated above: Define the individual workflow components, connect them in a pipeline object and run the pipeline in the target environment. However, what makes TFX different is that it has already built a set of Python packages that are libraries to create workflow components. So unlike the KFP example, we do not need to start from scratch by writing and containerizing our code. What is left for the users to do is pick which of those TFX components are relevant to their specific workflow and adapt their functionality to the specific use case using the library. The image below shows the available components and their corresponding libraries. The link with Apache Beam is that TFX relies heavily on it to implement data-parallel pipelines in these libraries. This means that components created with these libraries will need to be run on one of the support Beam runners. The full example code can again be found [here](sdks/python/apache_beam/examples/ml-orchestration/tfx/)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The way of working for TFX is similar to the approach for KFP as illustrated above: Define the individual workflow components, connect them in a pipeline object, and run the pipeline in the target environment. However, what makes TFX different is that it has already built a set of Python packages that are libraries to create workflow components. So unlike the KFP example, we do not need to start from scratch by writing and containerizing our code. What is left for the users to do is pick which of those TFX components are relevant to their specific workflow and adapt their functionality to the specific use case using the library. The image below shows the available components and their corresponding libraries. The link with Apache Beam is that TFX relies heavily on it to implement data-parallel pipelines in these libraries. This means that components created with these libraries will need to be run on one of the support Beam runners. The full example code can again be found [here](sdks/python/apache_beam/examples/ml-orchestration/tfx/)
```

Reviewer: similar question about this relative link `sdks/python/apache_beam/examples/ml-orchestration/tfx/`

Author: Indeed! What would be the preferred way to link to this?

Reviewer: Can we use a full link as if the page already exists? i.e. `https://beam.apache.org/documentation/ml/orchestration/`
